## 诀窍
- short form content - ADHD
- work in short, high intensity burst  - we can only focus intensely for about 45-60 min
- use short term rewards - when unfocusing, bribing(贿赂) your brain to stay on focus, promising sth sweet at the end.
- break the study session into short, manageable chunks(i.e. 1h )
- body doubling 
- practice tests
- learn to teach 
- a specific sopt that's designated for study only, have everything you need within reach, so you're not constantly getting up and breaking your focus. 

## 数学焦虑 - even fields prize winner
- someone thinks math anxiety decreases work memory
- the way children are exposed to math by their parents and teachers play a large part.
  - internalize
- teachers with math anxiety are also likely to spread it ot their students.
- in some cultures, being good at math is a sign of being smart in general.
- SOLUTIONS
  - relaxation techniques. 
  - for children: try being playful with math and focusing on the creative aspects.
  - give time and space 
  
## 1% atomic habit
- the valley of dissapointment  
- Goals V.S. systems
  - forget about goals, focus on systems instead: GOALs are good for setting a direction, but systems are best for making progress
  - a system of atomic habits - the right way to change yourself
    - atomic habits are the building blocks of remarkable results
  - 3 layers to behavior change
    - OUTCOMES - results
    - PROCESSES - what you do
    - identity - what you believe - change yourself by focusing on the person you want to become
  - habits are formed and reinforced by means of a continuous feedback loop: CUE + CRAVING + RESPONSE + REWARD
- 坏习惯的链条
  - 从某种 cue 开始，一直分散注意力
  - 把这些吸引注意力的物品，从环境中剔除
  - 让目标更有吸引力
  - 融入拥有相同好习惯的群体
- 增加坏习惯的阻力、减少好习惯的阻力（设置障碍）,好习惯加入环境、随处可得；坏习惯远离环境（把手机放在另外一个屋子里）
- don't break the chain of continuity

What is immediately rewarded is repeated, what is immediately punished is avoided.

## 3 个月学会任何东西 + ultralearning
1. learn how to learn the thing you want to learn. 无论想学什么，都应该找出最好的学习方法
2. focus - find somewhere with no distractions, a place where you can work.
3. 做你擅长的事情
4. 找出薄弱环节，并改进
5. test yourself, helps uncover what you didn't know
6. find someone can give you feedback
7. don't take the anwser for the answer - you should know why the answer is right

## 摆烂赢麻 1+2
1. study in cycles

## 专业
## 专业-语言
## 习惯
## 习惯-头脑清晰
## 习惯-心智
## 习惯-思维
## 全球学习危机及对策.mp4
## 其他
## 动力
  - study should not be hard. In fact i belive that we should only study things that naturally interest us.
  - reprogramming the brain: 这不是举哑铃，这是获得更强的体魄；这不是去图书馆，这是得到更多的技能

## 动力-疲倦
## 动力-精力
## 学校与教育
## 心理与脑科学

与焦虑为伴时学习，不是一个好选择。

## 思维
## 方法
## 方法-专注
## 方法-心流
## 方法-效率
## 方法-时间管理
## 方法-正念冥想
## 方法-计划、目标
## 方法-记忆
## 方法-读书
## 综合
## 自律
## 自律-成瘾
## 自律-拖延

缩小目标，将想要的养成的习惯变成日常。

## 自律-早起
## 采访
## 鸡汤


## Transcript

### 1% atom habits

Do you ever feel like you just floating through life, but not actually getting closer to the person that you want to be? It usually happens around New Years. You imagine all the bad habits you going to break free from and all the good habits you will begin this time will be different. You say to yourself, this time I am to do the things that I say I will only to end up back where you began shortly after, and no closer to what you have envisioned. So the question is, how do you break free from bad habits and make the habitue desire easier? And automatic coming habits by James clear answers all these questions. We're going to be doing a fast paste detailed summary of the book and dive deep into topics like habit loops, dopamine inspires, priming your environment plus heat more, and make sure you stick around it. The end of the video, where I go through step by step, how I personally using this book to to improve my own habits. I hope this summer inspires you to go out and grab a copy of the book yourself, because this book deserves a space on everyone's bookshelf. Let jump into it. Imagine a plane taking off and traveling from New York to Los Angeles. Just before take off, you were just a plane just slightly by three degrees, around 80 inches. If you were to keep flying in a straight line, you would end up closer to Tewana in Mexico that in your intended destination of loss Angeles. And the same goes for our habits. Tiny changes in our habits can change the trajectory of our lives in ways that we can't even notice until many years into the future. Looking back in both good ways and bad, you are your habits, the power of atomic habits. A slight change in your daily habits can guide your life to a very different destination. Massive action verse 1% improvements. Far too often, we convince ourselves that massive success is only possible through a massive action in any goal we are pursuing. We expect ourselves to make some quantum leap or momentous improvement that will gain others attention. However, it is a tiny improvements that uneven, noticeable at first, that create incredible change. Let's look deeper into the math. 1% better every day for a year will compound to 37 times better, but 1% was every day over a year will bring you close to zero. Your habits can compound against you in the form of things, stress or negative self talk. Or they can compound for you in the form of things like knowledge, productivity, skills and relationships. Success is the product of daily habits, not once in a lifetime transformations the truth about progress. When you start any endeavor in your life, here is what you think should happen, linear progress. But here is what actually happens. Notice this section here in the beginning, small changes in our progress are not even noticeable. Change clear refers to this part of the graph as the valley of disappointment. You've done so much, you put in so much effort, and you can barely see any results. This is where most people fail and slip back into their old routines. The most powerful outcomes of any compounding process are delayed, so patients is required. Goals, verse systems. Forget about goals. Focus on systems instead. A goal is a result you want to accomplish. Systems deal with processors that lead to the results. The conventional wisdom suggests that the best way to achieve anything we want in life be at getting into better shape, putting successful business or spending more time with family is to set specific realistic goals. But if you completely ignore your goals and focused only on your systems, would you still succeed. The author of this book argues that you would, here are some problems with only having goals. Successful and unsuccessful people share the same goals, so therefore, the goal cannot be what differentiates winners from losers. Achieving a goal only changes your life for that moment in time. Goals can create an either or conflict. Either you achieve the goal and and succeed, or you don't and you a failure, even if you are making progress in the right direction. When you achieve a goal, what do you do if your goal was running the local marathon? Chances are after after completing it, your motivation will quickly fade, and you would just slip back into your old routines. Goes are good for setting a direction, but systems are best for making progress, a system of atomic bits. The problem with changing your habits is not you the reason why you will repeat the same bad habits for so long isn't because you don't want to change, but because you have the wrong system for change. These atoms of the small routines of behaviors that accumulate to produce incremental positive outcomes over time, big breakthrough is tend to get more attention than small improvements. But what really matters of the little daily decisions and actions we take, just as Adams of the building blocks of molecules, atomic habits of the building blocks of remarkable results, there are three layers to behavior. The first layers, changing outcomes. The result, losing that weight, writing that book or winning the season, the outcomes of what you get. The second layer is changing your process, what you do when you work out routine or developing a daily reading habit. And the third layers, changing your identity, what you believe the world views and how you think about yourself and others. Most people focus on the outcomes, but the best way to change your habits is by focusing on the person you want to become instead of the results that you want. The goal isn't to learn an instrument is to become a musician. The goal isn't to run a marathon, is to become a runner when something you want in your life becomes part of your identity, that is, when your behaviors will start to naturally change. When you tell yourself and others I'm a runner, you want to live up to that identity. Remind yourself, every time you do a workout, you are an athlete. Every time you write a line of code, you are a programmer. Every time you instruct your team, you are a leader. The habit loop a habit is when something becomes repeated enough times that it becomes automatic. Ultimately, we want our habits to solve problems in our lives with the least amount of effort. Habit is formed and reinforced by means of a continuous feedback loop. Q craving response reward. The key to creating habits that sick is to create feedback loops that are continuously being improved. Q phone buz craving, want to know who message response, pick up the phone reward, solved the problem of the message. QE to goes blank bk craving, want to alleviate the frustration response, check social media reward, satisfy the need to feel less frustrated over time, rewards become associated with cues. So in this example, checking social media becomes tired to your mind going blank at work, and then checking Facebook may be the queue to check Instagram, which becomes the q to watch YouTube. And before you know it, your mind going blank has led to 20 minutes of waste of time. And the more you repeat these habit loops, the stronger and more automatic they become. Cues can really be anything, a smell, a sound, a site, a person, a location. Try to think of any cues in your daily life that are initiating you are good or bad habit loops. So how can we influence to have it loop to work for us? This book shows us the four laws that will guide us to do just that. No one make it obvious. Most of the your current habits are so automatic that you don't even realize them. You must first become aware of your habits before you can change them. You can achieve that with your habit score card right out of your daily behaviors on a habit score card. From the moment you wake up and to the moment you build a bed, your Scott may look something like this based on whether it helps you become the person you aspire to be categorized habit is positive, negative or neutral. At this stage, we are not trying to change anything, but just observe what is actually going on in our daily lives. Until you make the unconscious conscious, it will direct your life, and you will call it fate, call you begin. This is a real problem when it comes to have it formation. And studies have shown that quite often the reason people failed to stick to a habit is not because of a lack of motivation, but of a lack of motivation that you will get into shape and easy to say to yourself, but too vague to get any momentum. What you need is a time and a place. The most common queues, time and location will help you achieve your goals. Clearly state your intention to act using the following the formula I will behaviour at time in this location. Here is a bad example. I will read more this month. Here is a good example. I will read a book for 15 minutes daily at 6:00a.m.in the spare bedroom. Another good way to get a habit started is by habit stacking to stack habits, tired desired habit to an existing habit according to the following formula, after the current habit, I will, you have it. For example, after I brush my teeth, I will will stretch for five minutes. You can stack habits together. For example, after you finish brushing your teeth, you will mediate for ten minutes. You can plan the rest of your day before checking social media. The chain of habits is more likely to be sustained. If you practice this consistently, choosing the correct trigger is essential. You need a trigger. Q Your trigger should be something that you do automatically without failed during your day, such as waking up, turning off your alarm or brushing your teeth. James, it tells us in the book that motivation in the viva, you can better shape your behavior by designing your environment. We are more influenced by our environment than the willpower or motivation. You want to sit with positive habits. In a negative environment, environment is the invisible hand that shapes human behavior. Creating a habit requires you to redesign the space around you, to you make it easier to see the cues for the desired habits and to avert bad habits, or by making them invisible. If you want to live and in the accuse visible and obvious, place water bottles around the house in places you are likely to see them. Want to read more, place the book somewhere where you'll see it. If you want to get better in the sand to leave it out of sight in the closet. Context is the q objects in the environment do not determine our behavior. Rather, it is our relationship to them that does stop seeing your environment as a place simply fled with objects. Imagine it as a place filled with relationships. The catch in the living room is the place where one person reads an hour and night for another. The catches where they watch Netflix and eat pizza and relax after work, if you are a relationship with the couch is a place to relax, then trying to get a work related toast done in that environment may be difficult. Try to make separate zones in your house with different activities. The author likes to use the mantra, one space, one use. If you're trying to eliminate a bad habit, you can only rely on self control. In the short term, cutting off bad habits of the source is a more reliable solution. And one of the most practical ways to eliminate a bad habit is to make an invisible, eliminate it from your environment. For example, put your phone in another room for a few hours if you have trouble getting work done, or put junk food out of site, or remove it from your house if you're trying to lose weight. Law to make it attractive. When we expect to be rewarded, we take action. The more rewarding and action is, the more likely where to repeat it until it becomes a habit. Hence, the first step to forming good habits is to make them more attractive. Understanding how develop an affect your body will help you. Dopamine, a motivation levels, are affected by dopamine, a hormone and euro transmitter. We are more motivated to act when our dopamine levels rise. By measuring dopamine in, scientists can pinpoint the exact moment at which craving occurs. It was once assumed that dopamine was just about pleasure, but now we know it's vital to many neurological functions, including motivation, memory, learning, punishment as well as voluntary movement. The hormone dopamine is released not only when we experience pleasure, but was when we anticipated gambling. Addix have a dopa mean Spike right before they place a bet, not after they win. Let's dive deeper into dopamine spikes. Using social media, eating junk food and taking drugs are all associated with high levels of dopamine and a highly habit forming. Think about before going on a vacation. Sometimes the thinking and anticipation of the vacation is better than the actual vacation. Seeing the junk food you desire surge as doping after eating it drug Addis increased doping when they see the drugs, not after taking them. The craving is what causes us to take action in the first place. Making a habit attractive is vital because it is the expectation of rewarding experience that drives us to act. Here you can use the strategy known as temptation bundling ling. The temptation bundling process make a habit more attractive by combining and action we need to do with one that we want to do. For example, you could bundle watching Netflix something you want to do with working out something you need to do. Temptation bungling applies a psychology principle known as pre max principle, developed Professor David d. Max. The premium principal states, as prompted behaviors will reinforce less probable behaviors. In other words, even if you're not looking forward to doing some exercise, you become condition to do it because you get to do something else. You really enjoy group influence. We are continually one ring. What will others think of me? And altering our behavior based on the answer. We are influenced by the people closest to us and the groups that we belong to. If you you try to build a good habit, one of the best ways to reinforce the habit is to find and become part of a culture what that habit is the norm. If you want to get into better shape, surround yourself with the people. If you want to read more, join a book club. Primal motivators, the source of craters in your normal everyday life, wouldn't say something to itself like, I want to eat pizza because I need to consume this food to survive surface level cravings and merely manifestations about deeper underlying motives. And these underlying motives guide of behaviour. Here are some examples from the book of underlying motives, conserving energy, obtaining food and water, finding love and reproducing, connecting and bonding with others, winning social acceptance and approval, reducing uncertainty, playing status and prestige. Your brain did not evolve the desire to smoke cigarettes, check Instagram every five minutes or to play video games. Online platforms and products do not invent new motivations, but rather appeal to the underlying motives of human nature that we already have to gain our attention. You habits some modern day solutions to ancient desires, new versions of old advices. The underlying motives behind human behavior remain in the same. People who have the underlying motive of connecting with others may jump on to Facebook. Others seeking the underlying motive of finding love and reproducing may sign up for tinder. If you want to reduce uncertainty, there's Google of that. And seeking social acceptance, there's Instagram. Reprogramming your brain to enjoy hard habits, you can make hard habits more attractive if you can learn to associate them with a positive experience by highlighting the benefits of a habit rather than its downsides, you can quickly reprogram your mind and make it seem more appealing. For example, fitness equals health and well being and not fatigue. Cleaning the house, an environment conducive to piece of mind and not waste the time saving money, future financial freedom and not sacrifice make it unattractive to break a bad habit, do the same, but highlight the benefits of not doing that habit, to make it as unattractive to keep doing as possible. Law three, make it easy. How long does it actually take to form a new habit? During habit formation, the behavior becomes increasingly automatic as it is repeated. As you're repeated an activity, your brain changes in order to become more efficient at doing it. Long before neuroscientists dug into the process of forming habits, repetition was known as a powerful tool for establishing habits you activate, particularly neural circuits associated with habits every time you repeat them. So framing habit formation terms of time is flawed. It should be framed in terms of number of repetitions, reducing friction, the law of least effort. The more energy required, the less likely it is to happen. It takes almost no energy to get into the habit of reading one page of a book each day. Have it. It more likely to occur when when they require energy, the bigger the obstacle, more action. Or is between the, the, the eye, eye, eye, to, to, to, to the gym. You will not, but if your gym is located on your commute work, you will greatly decrease the energy and making your good habits more convenient. You are more likely to stick to them. Your life will be easier if you find ways to reduce friction rather than trying to solve it in order to build better habits, we have to find ways to reduce friction associated without good habits and increase friction associated without bad habits. Climbing the environment for use, by automating or setting up your environment, you can reduce the friction for future action. For example, I would lay on my work out clothes the night before, so when I get up, I can get moving in the morning, or to prepare a healthier breakfast, placed pan on the stove, cooking spray on the counter, and gather the the ingredients, the man before again to reduce any friction, using the two minute rule to stop procrastinating using the two minute rule can help you establish more habits that will lead to success in big ones. Find a simple two minute version of your desired habit. You want to scale down your desired outcome. Running a marathon becomes putting on your shoes and stretching for two minutes, it reading and out per day becomes reading one page. You need to get the routine and can in place, and then slowly build up the difficulty you you have. Master the two minute habit. You can progress to the next phase to make something more difficult. Think about ways you can create barriers of friction between yourself and the bad habit, make it as in practical as possible. If you want to watch less tv, unplug the tv after each use, and put the remote in an inconvenient location. When you go shopping, leave your credit cards under the seat, the car, if you have a bad habit of spontaneous spending, do anything you can make a bad habits less likely to occur. Look for, make it satisfying. The most important rule of behavior change a feeling of pleasure is a message to the brain. This feels good. Let's repeat this next time. When you experience pleasure, your brain loans that the behavior is worth remembering and repeating. What is immediately rewarded is repeated. What is immediately punished is avoided. The first three laws increase your chances of doing the habit. This time, the last law increases your chances of repeating the habit. Next time, the mismatch between immediate and delayed returns. It is common for us to feel good about our immediate results, but bad about our long term outcomes. When we practice bad habits, it is the opposite. With good habits, the immediate result is unpleasant, but the ultimate outcome is satisfying. A certain amount of success in just about every field involves ignoring and immediate reward for the long term. One, it is best to add a little immediate pleasure to habits that that will pay off in the long run, a little pain to those that don't. The vital thing and getting habit stick is the feels successful, even if it's in a small way. The feeling of success is a signal that you have it paid off and the work was worth the effort. It is satisfying to make progress, and you can monitor your progress using visual measures such as moving paper lips, happens or models. These little winds can go a long way. For example, for free sales call you make today, move a marvel from one jar to the complete. Or for each 25 minutes of writing, move a paperclip. Visual measurements can take many forms, diet channels, work out logs, download progress bars, or even page numbers in a book. Keeping a habit track may be the best method to monitor your progress. Using a habit tracker is a simple way to determine whether you did a particular habit. Tracking becomes a reward intern of itself. Crossing a task of you to do this, completing an entry in your exercise log or writing an ex on the calendar is satisfying. In spite of your best efforts, it is inevitable that life will interrupt you at some point. A bad day work, bad performance or a bad workout can happen to anyone. When you're having a bad day, you don't realize how valuable it is to just show up last days, hurt you more than successful days, help you don't break the chain every time you cross the day of your calendar. For a given habit, you are creating a chain. Showing up is so important. Missing two days or links in a row is the start of a bad habit. Even if you usually do 50 pushups just do ten on that given day. If that means not breaking the chain, breaking a bad habit make it unsatisfying. A behavior is less likely to occur when pain is immediate. Being held accountable by a partner is a good way to keep your desired habits in check. We all want to be liked and respected, so we would rather just avoid the punishment that we will be held accountable to. For example, I owe you $10 every time I miss a woke up, plus the respect I lose for failing to do what I said I would. Your behavior is more likely to be influence by concrete and immediate consequences. The habit contract, you can create a habit contract to hold yourself accountable. Just as governments use laws to hold citizens accountable. You can create a hait contract either verbally or in writing, which makes it clear that you will honor a particular habit and there will be punishments. If you do not, you can then use your accountability partners to enforce this contract. Okay. So it's one thing to read a book, but another to actually apply it to your life. So I'm going to try and visually represent how I've personally been using this book to build systems around my habits the past few months after. Do you guys read the book? Maybe your approach will be different than mine, much, much better. Maybe there are some parts that I completely missed or could improve upon. So do let me know in the comments below, the good habits I wanted to develop were more consistent work out and reading routines. The bad habit wanted to eliminate or becoming distracted and overconsuming social media. First, I completed the habit scorecard. This gave me a good idea of habits I could try to eliminate. But more importantly, it gave me an idea of daily habits. I was already doing that. I could stack my new habits with. Ultimately, when you find habits you want to work on, you want to be pushing the desired good habits towards this, this out of the spectrum, and the bad habits towards for the working out habit. The first that was to make the accuse more obvious. And I had a few tools that I could use from the book. In this case, I use what James clear calls the implementation strategy. So I will work out at 6:00a.m.in the living room. Next, I tried as best I could to design my environment conducive to this new habit. I took my dumb bell set out of the closet, and I put them in living room. I also found a few pictures of healthy physics on the Internet and put them in places around the house as cues that would remind me of the habit. Next, I moved onto the craving phase. So to increase opening and motivation, I bungled the workout with listening to some of my favorite podcast. And I also implement reprogramming of the brain. So I tell myself repeatedly, I don't have to do a workout, but I get to build strength and a healthier body. And that subtle shift in mindset has gone in a way, I, A lining gym, or finding a group of people to work out, and would be even better to strengthen this habit. But unfortunately, the the James S. A, where I live. So I kind of on my own. And these two tools will have to survive for the moment. Next, making it easy, using the two minute rule to make sure that I don't end up like most people, starting a new habit, but try to do too much too soon. I want to have it to not feel like a challenge at all. So my two minute rule was putting on my workout clothes and stretching, and that was the only thing that I accomplished. And that was fine because I showed up. But you will quickly find that once you are there, you are now motivated to get the work out done. So it is weird, but the motivation seems to come after you get the habit started. My mindset is focused on small 1% changes compounding into meaningful results and that my systems will get me the results and not vague goals. Remembering that my main focus at this point is just making sure that I show up and start anchoring this habit in place. And once you are consistently showing up, you can increase the progression to decrease friction. I made the rule that I'm not allowed to check my phone until the workout was complete. If I get distracted by emails or social media, it is one excuse and one step of friction between myself and workout getting completed. Lastly, this was a game changer for me, primming the environment when I placed my shoes, yoga, and dumbles out the night before I skyrocket my show up and workout percentage as soon as I place these items out the night before, I feel like the ritual has begun and the workout is already complete, because I have zero excuses. So with those three phases of the loop systemized to get me to show up, I only had the last phase of the loop left, which was to make sure I keep repeating the habit. I use both of these tools somewhat together to close out the loop. I use a habit tracker. Crossing the day of the calendar becomes the reward, and it also forces me to not want to break the chain. And I also take a picture of my calories that I burnt, and I send a picture of my partner and also increases the satisfaction. And I said why I begin with identity. And I remind myself of the balky that I want to become the kind of person that enjoys fitness and doesn't miss Kouts. I put on my focus on outcome such as I want to be ten kilograms latter by such in such a date. And I also remind myself that I need to be patient for the results and that I'm probably still somewhere in this value of disappointment, and I will see those results. I went through the same process with the reading habit with a few minor changes, so I use the habit stack. After making a coffee, I will read for nine minutes, so making a coffee with my trigger queue for reading my ones face. One use rule was reading on the balcony of the apartment. One of the best parts of my day is a nice cup of coffee in the morning. So this was the perfect thing for me to bundle my reading habit with remembering how dopamine raises in anticipation of a reward, and not the reward itself. I wanted this dopamine spike for wanting coffee to start becoming associated with reading. My two minute rule was to read one page of the daily Stolk Byran holiday. Super simple again in the beginning, or always concerned with, was showing up and getting this habit anchored. Then I slowly built up the habit to 20 minutes for the bad habit I was trying to eliminate to make the habit invisible. I started by making my phone as boring as I possibly could, which required deleting a lot of apps. I used the real programming tool, highlight the unattractive side of overconsuming social media. Telling myself things like consuming is the easy and lazy option of the masses. And do I want to be a consumer or a producer? Random growing through fees is for losers. So you want to try to paint your bad habit in a light that makes it super unattractive to keep doing, to increase friction, I left my phone in a draw in another room so completely out of site. And to make it unsatisfying, I have an accountability partner. I get my partner to enforce this habit. The punishment is, if she seized me using social media during work time, I owe her $10. So that is how I've been using this fantastic book, guys, to get great results so far. Go out and grab a copy of this book for yourself. If you haven't already, you going to take in the knowledge at a much deeper level from all the stories and examples that James clear gives you in the book, as well as advanced techniques, which we didn't cover in the summary, that will help you strengthen your habits. Good luck in your journey. Thank you for watching and see you in the next video. 